if you are new here my name is elizabeth
i'm a medical student and an artist
living
in london and today i wanted to answer
one of the questions
i get asked the most which is just how i
manage my time and how i don't
procrastinate
now this is a very loaded question
because the thing is
i do procrastinate a lot and i
absolutely
love it i don't know anyone who doesn't
and i don't actually think that
procrastination itself is the issue
so i spent some time thinking about it
and in this video
i'm going to share how i get so much
done
while also procrastinating and what sort
of schedule changes and
mind shift changes have completely
transformed the way i work
and my results obviously this will just
be what has worked for me
and i can only hope that if you do watch
this video you can also find it valuable
starting from the beginning
i have always been a massive fan of
scheduling
massive i would be given any sort of
projects and i would
turn into the most inspired scheduling
queen i have tried everything making
calendars to span
a whole wall redoing my notion google
calendar
apple calendars bullet journaling you
name it the thing is that this
over-excitable over-inspired version of
elizabeth
although she's very good at scheduling
she doesn't exist
all the time the version of myself that
actually
shows up three days later to do the work
is
quite lazy bored would rather just lie
on the bed and do
nothing or she'll find her instagram
feed to be the most
interesting thing in the world and
therefore the work
won't always get done so what would
happen is that very soon i would start
falling behind
and once these little slip-ups
accumulate because i had
such a strict schedule in days weeks
or in the best case scenario months that
schedule would be
completely pointless there would be not
a chance that i would be able to catch
up with it so there would just be
useless plans that i would have to
throw away and on top of that because i
now
had such bad feelings associated with
the job that i wanted to do i would end
up quitting a lot of things
this could be a new workout plan or a
new project or studying a new language
or learning a new skill
i would just stop now i've changed the
way that i approach things even before i
get started
and what i mean by this is that i never
forget that i
am a huge procrastinator some of my most
relaxing and enjoyable times
are when i'm procrastinating for example
when i sit by my windowsill and look out
into the city
listening to music and doing absolutely
nothing this
is so much fun for me and the point of
my life is not just to get things done
because the point of those things in
themselves is to make my life better
and sometimes my life is made better by
simply doing
nothing so now when i schedule things
which i still
very very much enjoy doing i do it in a
way that allows me to feel
just as good when i'm working and
getting things done
as when i'm doing absolutely nothing so
practically what this means for me is
that most projects i will do in a single
day
and in the single sitting i will take
advantage of those times where i'm
hyper-inspired i'm very much the sort of
person who can work
for almost 20 hours in a row sometimes
and i'll get most
major projects done in those bouts of
inspiration
but usually it's not these that are the
issue
the issue is with the things that we
have to do consistently
over a long period of time and this is
where
my scheduling comes in i create very lax
schedules i almost never plan to do the
same thing
two days in a row and i space things out
a lot
i'm very generous with myself in this
way there are days where i'll literally
be up until 6am
doing not only what i have planned for
that day on the projects
but what i've planned for the whole next
two weeks because i'm super inspired
and then there'll be times where i just
won't touch something for weeks or even
months because i'm just not
in the mood for it even though in the
past i would have thought that in those
times
i've quit the thing is i haven't because
my planning
is so relaxed i'm always catching up
with myself one way or another
and i'm always up to date honestly so
for example you might see me
not working out throughout the whole
third lockdown or
equally not drawing or painting
throughout the whole third lockdown
this doesn't mean that i'm not an artist
or very much into fitness i just don't
see things that way
anymore i plan for the very long term
and i know that for both of these things
i haven't quit because i have made up
for it in the past by doing extra work
and i know that this is something that i
will do again in the future i am always
working consistently
just on a larger time scale if you were
to zoom out and look at my life
in terms of months or years i would be
working consistently and still doing
things
compared to what i was doing before
where i'd be hyper consistent on the
daily level for a very short period of
time
and then just stop all together and the
issue for me has always been consistency
if i am being consistent i am winning
i'm doing things right
so honestly how i get things done is i
just follow my fun
and what i feel like doing in the moment
it works and it works really well
if you're a student and you are curious
on how i actually plan my study
schedules
i have a video when i go through that in
a lot more detail and if you're someone
who wants to take up a new project or
hobby
using the same schedule would be very
very effective hopefully because that's
the same thing that i do as always thank
you for spending this time with me i
hope you found
anything that came out of my face today
useful i hope you have a wonderful rest
of your day
be kind yourself and others and don't
believe everything you think thanks
bye
[Music]